README.md, before:

# JPDB Game Decks
An unofficial collection of [jpdb.io](https://jpdb.io) vocabulary/kanji decks for studying Japanese video game text!

Before downloading, you can browse decks [here](decks_status.md) for status and quality information, as well as Steam page links.

## Usage
1. Download the desired CSV files. Options:
   1. Download the entire project by running `git clone` from the command line.
   2. Download the entire project as a zip file via the green button above.
   3. Download individual CSVs using a tool like <https://mew.js.cool/DownGit/#/home>.
2. Head to <https://jpdb.asayake.xyz> and enter your JPDB API key.
3. Under _Import Decks_, select the CSVs you want from those just downloaded.
   * Note there's a 250 deck limit and it takes about a second per deck.
4. (Optional) merge decks using <https://kampffrosch94.github.io/jpdb-deck-manager>.

## Disclaimers

This project is completely unaffiliated with jpdb.io, any of the linked tools, or any of the listed games.

Most decks are generated with the help of tools and may contain errors.

Game text is _NOT_ hosted on this repo, as the original texts are copyright of their respective owners.

Commit message:

Added contributing.md and linked to it from README.md.

README.md, after:

# JPDB Game Decks

An unofficial collection of [jpdb.io](https://jpdb.io) vocabulary/kanji decks for studying Japanese video game text!

Before downloading, you can browse decks [here](decks_status.md) for status and quality information, as well as Steam page links.


## Usage
1. Download the desired CSV files. Options:
   1. Download the entire project by running `git clone` from the command line.
   2. Download the entire project as a zip file via the green button above.
   3. Download individual CSVs using a tool like <https://mew.js.cool/DownGit/#/home>.
2. Head to <https://jpdb.asayake.xyz> and enter your JPDB API key.
3. Under _Import Decks_, select the CSVs you want from those just downloaded.
   * Note there's a 250 deck limit and it takes about a second per deck.
4. (Optional) merge decks using <https://kampffrosch94.github.io/jpdb-deck-manager>.


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to add a deck, then please follow [this guide](contributing.md).


## Disclaimers

This project is completely unaffiliated with jpdb.io, any of the linked tools, or any of the listed games.

Most decks are generated with the help of tools and may contain errors.

Game text is _NOT_ hosted on this repo, as the original texts are copyright of their respective owners.
